[Music]
once i was at a party where i met a guy
who was talking about a cool video game
i joined the conversation i wanted to be
cool too
and impress everyone around me i thought
about what i would say
and stop listening to the discussion
instead of enjoying the party
i was thinking about how best to show
off
finally i said something dumb about
another video game
no one paid any attention to it no one
cared for me
i said something they forgot in a second
but for me
it was a catastrophe i felt pathetic
like i didn't belong at the party in
this city
on this planet i wanted to be cool
be as confident as everyone else around
me and try too
hard to do that but i failed
i only ever feel confident with my
friends and put a mask in front of
anyone else
why is it some people don't do anything
at all and everyone loves them
it's not fair this isn't just about
being independent on someone else's
opinion
or constantly thinking about how to
better show myself
low self-esteem creates many problems
with different shapes and nuances
people who depend on others opinions may
also dislike themselves
or believe they're not capable of
anything
people with low self-esteem can believe
they will fail before they even try
and if they do succeed in something they
think they were just lucky
this is called imposter syndrome when a
person succeeds in something
but doesn't believe they deserve it so
for example
you've written an article for a magazine
you're sure that the article is terrible
but people liked it
maybe you've really managed to write
something good nah
you don't believe that most likely
people didn't notice how terrible the
article is
you managed to deceive them this is
impostor syndrome
people who experience this often blame
themselves for not trying hard enough
while others are doing better sometimes
they feel that
reality is laughing at them once
a guy was walking down the street before
he noticed his shoelaces were untied
he was sure many people had seen it he
thought he heard them laughing at him
even though they weren't this low
self-esteem
creates a subjective view of reality
distorting it
people see what isn't real and believe
it there's no connection between their
sense of reality and true reality
low self-esteem forces us to create
protective mechanisms
that help us not get hurt someone may
avoid confident people
so they won't seem pathetic around them
someone may think about what to say for
a long time
or remain silent because they're too
afraid to seem stupid
some people never enter into arguments
because they know they will lose
they don't undertake interesting
projects because they're afraid of
failure before they even try all of
these things are protective mechanisms
they're created by us unconsciously and
take root
so strongly that they become part of our
personality
low self-esteem can make people do good
and bad things
school bullies can suffer from low
self-esteem
they think deep inside that they're weak
so they fight with people to prove
otherwise
fighting is their protective mechanism
but many people succeed because of low
self-esteem
they may think their life is worthless
if they don't earn millions of dollars
or if someone has more money an
obsessive desire for wealth
is also a protective mechanism
there are also people who can't refuse
you ask them for anything and they'll
help
even if it isn't playing in their favor
this is not a desire to please others
but an obsessive desire to help another
person
because if they don't help they will
feel terrible
this is another protective mechanism and
unfortunately
these people are often used by others
their goal is to take care of people
because they don't know what to do with
their lives
people with low self-esteem are often
forced to wear invisible masks
so the world can't see what they really
are with the help of protective
mechanisms
they constantly prove to themselves and
everyone around
that they are better than they seem
people with stable self-esteem don't do
this
they don't wear masks and don't have to
prove anything to anyone
they don't feel bad about themselves and
they don't have any protective
mechanisms
this raises a question where does low
self-esteem come from
i was an ordinary child my parents loved
me very much
and gave me only the best the best
school the best college
also i could get the best job and of
course they spent a lot of money on me
i went to a private school that was very
demanding
when i got good grades i was praised
when i got bad ones
i was punished i was used to it i felt
good and
confident when my parents were happy
with me and bad
when they were disappointed this went on
for years
and my self-esteem got used to a very
simple algorithm of actions
to be normal i must please others and
this algorithm was with me all my life
i felt great if other people liked me
and was very sad
when someone didn't but it's not always
the parents fault
a guy lost a fight when he was a kid
everyone at school laughed at him
this is how he developed bad self-esteem
to hide it and protect himself
this boy began to fight and bully the
weaker ones
it was the only way he felt confident
another guy lived in a poor family his
parents were not involved in his
upbringing
and he spent all day watching videos
about rich people
this gave him the firm belief that if he
didn't become a millionaire
he was nothing in this world his
self-esteem
suffered if he saw someone richer than
himself so he sought to earn a lot of
money
a girl who grew up in a large family was
the eldest of four sisters
since childhood her parents demanded she
take care of her younger sisters
for years she took care of others and
never thought about what she wanted
and her parents praised her for it if
she did something wrong
she was scolded so her self-esteem
became dependent on helping others
when she grew up the girl found herself
looking for others who needed help
and people took advantage of her a lot
of people
events and injuries have shaped our
self-esteem over the years
it's like putting your hand on fresh
cement
over time the cement hardens and the
mark remains
if you've discovered the reasons for
your low self-esteem
what should you do next how do you stop
using your protective mechanisms
it's difficult but possible it involves
long work on yourself the most difficult
thing is to look into the eyes of your
fear
tell yourself it doesn't matter if
someone doesn't like you
it won't be a tragedy if the bully loses
a fight
a rich guy should recognize there will
always be people richer than him
and the girl should stop being afraid to
refuse to help others
don't blame yourself for something and
don't attach great importance to your
failures
consider mistakes as an experience and
as a way to get better
pay attention not to your bad sides but
the good ones
yes this is easy to say and can be
difficult to do
but it's the only way to change
it can be hard to remove the mass it can
be difficult to accept yourself as you
are and show yourself to others
over the years you have developed low
self-esteem
and of course it can take years to form
a good one
but it's the way to find true freedom
and you don't have to do it alone other
people can help
change for the better you'll experience
good events that strengthen your
self-confidence
over time you will appreciate yourself
more
and stop depending on the opinions of
others as soon as you start living your
own life
without a mask as soon as you love
yourself for who you are
you begin to notice that you attract
people to you
it will be pleasant yes but you won't
attach much importance to it
because you'll be busy living your life